`HDS Docs` - Breakpoints (#2855)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/foundations/breakpoints/partials/code/how-to-use.md

Here is an example of how the mixins could be used in a mobile-first responsive layout:

```scss
// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

.my-responsive-layout {
  // this is the default behavior, that covers the range 0px–767px
  display: flex;
  direction: column;
  gap: 1rem;

  // at 768px the layout changes, from a vertical stack to an horizontal one
  @include hds-breakpoint-above('md') {
    direction: row;
  }

  // at larger viewports we increase the spacing between the items
  @include hds-breakpoint-above('xl') {
    gap: 2rem;
  }
}
```

The same layout could be achieved using a desktop-first approach in a similar way:

```scss
// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

.my-responsive-layout {
  // this is the default behavior
  display: flex;
  direction: row;
  gap: 2rem;

  // at smaller viewports we decrease the spacing between the items
  @include hds-breakpoint-below('xl') {
    gap: 1rem;
  }

  // at 768px the layout changes, from an horizontal stack to a vertical one
  @include hds-breakpoint-below('md') {
    direction: column;
  }
}
```

> Of course, these are oversimplified examples. In your implementation, you will have to choose which of the provided mixins are better suited to achieve the desired responsive layout, which depends on the design specifications, the context of where the layout lives in the page, and how it relates with the other UI elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, these are oversimplified examples. In your implementation, you will have to choose which mixin is best suited to achieve the desired responsive layout. This will  depend on the design specifications, the context of the layout within the page, and how it relates with other UI elements.
```

#### Key/Value Map

For special use cases, we also provide a Sass map–`$hds-breakpoints`–which is a lower level helper than the mixins. Here's an example of how this map could be used:

```scss
// explicit import of `map` module (required by Sass)
@use "sass:map";
// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

@each $name, $size in $hds-breakpoints {
  .my-custom-breakpoint-class--#{$name} {
    // here you have access to the breakpoint name and its value (width in px)
  }
}
```

### JavaScript

> We also provide helpers in case you need to access the breakpoints names/values in JavaScript code.

Reviewer: (Question, non-blocker) How often do we expect this to happen? Should the language reflect whether or not this is a good idea? In other places we've said things like, "should you need to" which is more of an indicator that _it's there but use with caution_.

Reviewer 2: There's nothing "dangerous" in them using the breakpoints in JS, it depends on the context where they need it (meet them where they are). There are use cases where controlling responsive behaviour in JS is inevitable (and in fact, that's what we do ourselves in the AppHeader and AppSideNav/SideNav components).

## How to use the breakpoints

> In [responsive design](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Responsive_Design) it's common practice to define specific media queries in CSS that can be used to control not only the layout of the entire page and its parts, but also other aspects of a UI like typography and spacing, the rendering of decorative elements, the resolution of media assets, and much more. These media queries are built using CSS `@media` declarations in combination with a set of standard breakpoints.

Reviewer 3: [small suggestion]

```suggestion
In [responsive design](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Responsive_Design) it's common practice to define specific media queries in CSS that can be used to control not only the layout of the entire page and its parts, but also other aspects of a UI like typography, spacing, the rendering of decorative elements, the resolution of media assets, and much more. These media queries are built using CSS `@media` declarations in combination with a set of standard breakpoints.
```

- `hds-breakpoint-above($name)` - for media queries that apply to a viewport range **above** a certain breakpoint (useful for a mobile-first approach)
- `hds-breakpoint-below($name)` - for media queries that apply to a viewport range **below** a certain breakpoint (useful for a desktop-first approach)
- `hds-breakpoint-between($lower, $upper)` - for media queries that apply to a viewport range **between** two breakpoints

Here is an example of how the mixins could be used in a mobile-first responsive layout:

```scss
// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

.my-responsive-layout {
  // this is the default behavior, that covers the range 0px–767px
  display: flex;
  direction: column;
  gap: 1rem;

  // at 768px the layout changes, from a vertical stack to an horizontal one
  @include hds-breakpoint-above('md') {
    direction: row;
  }

  // at larger viewports we increase the spacing between the items
  @include hds-breakpoint-above('xl') {
    gap: 2rem;
  }
}
```

The same layout could be achieved using a desktop-first approach in a similar way:

> ```scss{data-execute=false}

Reviewer 4: Just a side question: why does this code snippet need `{data-execute=false}` but not the one before?

// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

.my-responsive-layout {
  // this is the default behavior
  display: flex;
  direction: row;
  gap: 2rem;

  // at smaller viewports we decrease the spacing between the items
  @include hds-breakpoint-below('xl') {
    gap: 1rem;
  }

  // at 768px the layout changes, from an horizontal stack to a vertical one
  @include hds-breakpoint-below('md') {
    direction: column;
  }
}
```

> Of course, these are oversimplified examples. In your implementation, you will have to choose which of the provided mixins are better suited to obtain the desired responsive layout, depending on the design specifications, the context of where the layout lives in the page, and how it relates with the other UI elements.

Reviewer 3: [small suggestion]

```suggestion
Of course, these are oversimplified examples. In your implementation, you will have to choose which of the provided mixins are better suited to achieve the desired responsive layout, which depends on the design specifications, the context of where the layout lives in the page, and how it relates with the other UI elements.
```

#### Key/Value Map

For special use cases, we also provide a Sass map–`$hds-breakpoints`–which is a lower level helper than the mixins. Here's an example of how this map could be used:

```scss
// explicit import of `map` module (required by Sass)
@use "sass:map";
// from @hashicorp/design-system-components package
@use "mixins/breakpoints" as *;

@each $name, $size in $hds-breakpoints {
  .my-custom-breakpoint-class--#{$name} {
    // here you have access to the breakpoint name and its value (width in px)
  }
}
```

### JavaScript

> We provide also helpers in case you need to access the breakpoints names/values in JavaScript code.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We also provide helpers in case you need to access the breakpoints names/values in JavaScript code.
```

> You have access to the list of breakpoints' names using the `hdsBreakpointsNames` array:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You have access to the list of breakpoint names using the `hdsBreakpointsNames` array:
```

Reviewer 5: Related, I think we may want to remove the "s" from "breakpoints" in the variable names: https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/pull/2848/files#r2085611901

Reviewer 2: Done.

```javascript{data-execute=false}
import { hdsBreakpointsNames } from '@hashicorp/design-system-components/utils/hds-breakpoints';

hdsBreakpointsNames.forEach(name => {

>   // do something with the breakpoints' names

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  // do something with the breakpoint names
```

});
```

> You have also access to the list their names and values using the `hdsBreakpointsValues` map:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You also have access to the list of breakpoint names and values using the `hdsBreakpointsValues` map:
```

> ## How to use breakpoints

Reviewer 4: Will the code content be added to this PR? or in a separate one? If it will be a separate PR, then we should omit this file.

Author: This one, Cristiano will be adding it

Reviewer 2: I'm on it
